#+STARTUP: indent showall                       -*- org -*-

* 0.2.1

** Fixed JSON formatting for syslog() messages

In version 0.2.0, when converting to formatting the JSON output
ourselves, a bug creeped in that made the library emit invalid JSON
when used as an LD_PRELOAD-ed library.

This has been corrected.

** Facility and priority values are handled properly

In all versions of the library the facility and priority handling was
broken for all but the most trivial cases. This version fixes this
issue aswell.

** Previous openlog() settings are cleared at closelog() time

In all former versions of the library, openlog() collected a set of
information that was then used by all other functions, even after
closelog() was called.

Closing the log should return us to the default state, so we now wrap
closelog() too, and the library resets its settings to their default.

* 0.2.0 - <2012-04-16 Mon>

** Remove the json-c dependency

The library used very little from the features of json-c, as all we
did was append key-value pairs, where both key and value were always
strings. No nesting, no other funky stuff. It's easier to do this
directly, without having to build a separate object and then serialize
it into a string.

For this reason, the json-c dependency was removed, and the library
does the JSON formatting itself. However, json-c is still required for
the test suite, but not otherwise.

The result is a more compact JSON, and noticably increased speed.

* 0.1.2 - <2012-04-08 Sun>

** Portability fixes

Up until now, the library abused that passing va_list around without
copying works on various architectures. On others, that does not.

To remedy the issue, the library now parses format strings itself, and
copies va_list. This makes it work on all architectures, independent
on the internal implementation of va_list, and preserves both API and
ABI.

* 0.1.1 - <2012-04-02 Mon>

** Override __syslog_chk, even when compiled without fortification

In the first release, the library only exported and overridden
__syslog_chk function if it was compiled with fortification
enabled. This resulted in the library not working as expected on
systems where fortification was enabled (such as Debian and Fedora).

This release corrects that issue, and even by default, with
fortification disabled, the built library will work as expected on all
supported systems.

* 0.1.0 - <2012-03-26 Mon>

Initial release.
